README.md, before:

# fleetpkg-mcp

`fleetpkg-mcp` is a Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that enables 
LLMs to query low-level metadata about Elastic Fleet integration packages.
It loads metadata from a local copy of the `elastic/integrations` repository
into a SQLite database and exposes SQL query capabilities to the LLM through the
Model Context Protocol.

## Features

- Scans and indexes all Elastic Fleet integration packages from your local `elastic/integrations` repository
- Creates a queryable SQLite database with comprehensive package metadata
- Exposes readonly database access to LLMs through the Model Context Protocol
- Enables AI assistants to answer detailed questions about Elastic Fleet integrations

## Usage

### With `go run`

```
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "fleetpkg": {
      "command": "go",
      "args": [
        "run",
        "github.com/andrewkroh/fleetpkg-mcp@main",
        "-dir"
        "/Users/<USERNAME>/code/elastic/integrations"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

### Local install

Install the binary with

`go install github.com/andrewkroh/fleetpkg-mcp`

then determine the path using `which fleetpkg-mcp`.

```
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "fleetpkg": {
      "command": "/Users/<USERNAME>/go/bin/fleetpkg-mcp",
      "args": [
        "-dir"
        "/Users/<USERNAME>/code/elastic/integrations"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

### Claude setup with stdio

Add:

`claude mcp add --scope user fleetpkg -- /Users/<USERNAME>/go/bin/fleetpkg-mcp -dir /Users/akroh/code/elastic/integrations`

Removal:

`claude mcp remove fleetpkg`

### Claude setup with http

Add:

`claude mcp add --scope user --transport http fleetpkg http://127.0.0.1:1234`

Removal:

`claude mcp remove fleetpkg`

### Required Arguments

- `-dir`: **Required**. Path to your local checkout of the [elastic/integrations](https://github.com/elastic/integrations) repository.

### Optional Arguments

- `-http`: Listen for HTTP at the specified address, instead of using stdin/stdout
- `-log-level`: Set log level (debug, info, warn, error). Default: info
- `-no-log`: Disable logging

## Database Schema

The SQLite database contains information about Fleet integrations including:

- **Integrations**: Core metadata about each package (name, version, type, description, ownership)
- **Policy Templates**: Configuration templates for deploying integrations
- **Data Streams**: Information about the data streams each integration produces
- **Fields**: Detailed field definitions from fields.yml files
- **Transforms**: Data transformation configurations
- **Variables**: Configuration variables for customizing integrations

There is more data to expose, but this is an MVP.

## Example Conversation

Here's an example of how you can use this server with an LLM to answer questions about Elastic Fleet integrations:

> **Q**: Use the fleetpkg tools to answer: What integrations configure a pivot type transform?
>
> **A**: The following integrations configure a pivot type transform:
>
> * aws_billing
> * beaconing
> * ded
> * elasticsearch
> * lmd
> * pad

> **Q**: Of those, which do not have an ingest node pipeline associated with the transform?
>
> **A**: The integrations that configure a pivot type transform and do not have an ingest node pipeline associated with the transform are:
>
> * lmd
> * pad

> **Q**: What github team owns those two integrations?
>
> **A**: The `elastic/sec-applied-ml` GitHub team owns both the `lmd` and `pad` integrations.

----

> **Q**: Use the fleetpkg tools to answer the following question. What integration
> data streams define a 'resource' field? And what are the data types of the
> fields?
> 
> **A**: The following integration data streams define a 'resource' field of type 'keyword':
>
> - endace > flow
> - network_traffic > amqp
> - network_traffic > cassandra
> - network_traffic > dhcpv4
> - network_traffic > dns
> - network_traffic > flow
> - network_traffic > http
> - network_traffic > icmp
> - network_traffic > memcached
> - network_traffic > mongodb
> - network_traffic > mysql
> - network_traffic > nfs
> - network_traffic > pgsql
> - network_traffic > redis
> - network_traffic > sip
> - network_traffic > thrift
> - network_traffic > tls

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the LICENSE.txt file for details.

Commit message:

docs: update database schema description in README
Refresh the list of data indexed in the database to reflect all the
tables that have been added. The list now includes ingest pipelines
and processors, sample events, visual assets, discovery metadata,
build manifests, and changelog information.

Added a link to schema.sql for complete schema details.

README.md, after:

# fleetpkg-mcp

`fleetpkg-mcp` is a Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that enables 
LLMs to query low-level metadata about Elastic Fleet integration packages.
It loads metadata from a local copy of the `elastic/integrations` repository
into a SQLite database and exposes SQL query capabilities to the LLM through the
Model Context Protocol.

## Features

- Scans and indexes all Elastic Fleet integration packages from your local `elastic/integrations` repository
- Creates a queryable SQLite database with comprehensive package metadata
- Exposes readonly database access to LLMs through the Model Context Protocol
- Enables AI assistants to answer detailed questions about Elastic Fleet integrations

## Usage

### With `go run`

```
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "fleetpkg": {
      "command": "go",
      "args": [
        "run",
        "github.com/andrewkroh/fleetpkg-mcp@main",
        "-dir"
        "/Users/<USERNAME>/code/elastic/integrations"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

### Local install

Install the binary with

`go install github.com/andrewkroh/fleetpkg-mcp`

then determine the path using `which fleetpkg-mcp`.

```
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "fleetpkg": {
      "command": "/Users/<USERNAME>/go/bin/fleetpkg-mcp",
      "args": [
        "-dir"
        "/Users/<USERNAME>/code/elastic/integrations"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

### Claude setup with stdio

Add:

`claude mcp add --scope user fleetpkg -- /Users/<USERNAME>/go/bin/fleetpkg-mcp -dir /Users/akroh/code/elastic/integrations`

Removal:

`claude mcp remove fleetpkg`

### Claude setup with http

Add:

`claude mcp add --scope user --transport http fleetpkg http://127.0.0.1:1234`

Removal:

`claude mcp remove fleetpkg`

### Required Arguments

- `-dir`: **Required**. Path to your local checkout of the [elastic/integrations](https://github.com/elastic/integrations) repository.

### Optional Arguments

- `-http`: Listen for HTTP at the specified address, instead of using stdin/stdout
- `-log-level`: Set log level (debug, info, warn, error). Default: info
- `-no-log`: Disable logging

## Database Schema

The SQLite database contains information about Fleet integrations including:

- **Integrations**: Core metadata about each package (name, version, type, description, ownership)
- **Policy Templates**: Configuration templates for deploying integrations with deployment modes
- **Data Streams**: Information about the data streams each integration produces
- **Fields**: Detailed field definitions from fields.yml files with ECS mappings
- **Transforms**: Data transformation configurations with pivot and latest operations
- **Variables**: Configuration variables for customizing integrations with options for select types
- **Ingest Pipelines**: Elasticsearch ingest pipeline configurations
- **Ingest Processors**: Individual processors within pipelines including nested on_failure handlers
- **Sample Events**: Example event data for data streams
- **Icons and Screenshots**: Visual assets for integrations and policy templates with image metadata
- **Discovery Fields**: Package discovery capability metadata
- **Build Manifests**: Build configuration and ECS dependencies
- **Changelogs**: Version history with releases and individual changes
- **Categories**: Categorization for integrations and policy templates

For the complete database schema, see [schema.sql](internal/database/schema.sql).

## Example Conversation

Here's an example of how you can use this server with an LLM to answer questions about Elastic Fleet integrations:

> **Q**: Use the fleetpkg tools to answer: What integrations configure a pivot type transform?
>
> **A**: The following integrations configure a pivot type transform:
>
> * aws_billing
> * beaconing
> * ded
> * elasticsearch
> * lmd
> * pad

> **Q**: Of those, which do not have an ingest node pipeline associated with the transform?
>
> **A**: The integrations that configure a pivot type transform and do not have an ingest node pipeline associated with the transform are:
>
> * lmd
> * pad

> **Q**: What github team owns those two integrations?
>
> **A**: The `elastic/sec-applied-ml` GitHub team owns both the `lmd` and `pad` integrations.

----

> **Q**: Use the fleetpkg tools to answer the following question. What integration
> data streams define a 'resource' field? And what are the data types of the
> fields?
> 
> **A**: The following integration data streams define a 'resource' field of type 'keyword':
>
> - endace > flow
> - network_traffic > amqp
> - network_traffic > cassandra
> - network_traffic > dhcpv4
> - network_traffic > dns
> - network_traffic > flow
> - network_traffic > http
> - network_traffic > icmp
> - network_traffic > memcached
> - network_traffic > mongodb
> - network_traffic > mysql
> - network_traffic > nfs
> - network_traffic > pgsql
> - network_traffic > redis
> - network_traffic > sip
> - network_traffic > thrift
> - network_traffic > tls

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the LICENSE.txt file for details.
